<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/strict.dtd">
<html>
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer">
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="2022.6">
  <style type="text/css">
    p.p1 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; font: 12.0px Helvetica}
    p.p2 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; font: 12.0px Helvetica; min-height: 14.0px}
  </style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"># on capitalism,<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>marketisation, &amp; education</p>
<p class="p1">###### 14-11-21</p>
<p class="p1">* * *</p>
<p class="p1">now that freshers is long-gone, the rose-tinted glasses framing my university life have disappeared. and there are, a *lot* of issues to talk about.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">i have very few social issues to talk about, surprisingly, i’ve barely experienced any transphobia from fellow students, and i don’t feel equipped to discuss the spiking epidemic occurring recently.</p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">on results day, and for the week after, social media was full of reports on bristol’s accommodation crisis. to put it simply, too many successful applicants, not enough accommodation space. some students had to resort to finding homes in bath, placing them in a completely different student culture than the one they had hoped for. whilst many will simply put this down to nothing more than covid-19 grade inflation, bristol university have been recklessly expanding the student population for a number of years now. the accommodation crisis is nothing novel to this academic year either, with students being housed in newport a few years ago. this has since been rectified, but is still ridiculous, considering how the university have maintained plans to expand, reaching 30,000 students by 2024.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">lack of accommodation spaces isn’t the only housing issue either. not by any means. in my first week or so here, i met someone on my course who had her freshers in a hotel, as the accommodation hadn’t been *built* yet. i’m not entirely sure when she moved in (and i’m assuming she has now), but even one day in a hotel is too long.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">even if you manage to get an accommodation place, things don’t improve much. what we’re paying is ridiculously expensive, and what we get is substandard. so much to the point that one of my friends is sleeping in my flatmate’s room, because of a mould and damp problem. the maintenance here is near nonexistent, with online reports (our only point of contact) going ignored for (up to) weeks.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">with both my parents being active in educational and political issues (my mother from the angle of a secondary school teacher in a deprived area, my father just from being a passionate socialist) i have always been acutely aware of systemic issues in education. my gcse english speech was on the myth of meritocracy, and i have listened to many dinner table rants on ofsted’s inherent evil.</p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">the marketisation and commercialisation of our education systems is nothing new. as with many issues in current british society, you can thank thatcher for that.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
</body>
</html>
