
# on marketisation, accommodation, & mould
###### 14-11-21
* * *
now that freshers is long-gone, the rose-tinted glasses framing my university life have disappeared. and there are, a *lot* of issues to talk about. you can, in part, thank thatcher for this.

i have few social issues to talk about, surprisingly, i’ve barely experienced any transphobia from fellow students (aside from the occasional misgendering), and i don’t feel equipped to discuss the spiking epidemic occurring recently.

on results day, and for the week after, social media was full of reports on bristol’s accommodation crisis. to put it simply, too many successful applicants, not enough accommodation space. some students had to resort to finding homes in bath, placing them in a completely different student culture than the one they had hoped for. whilst many will simply put this down to nothing more than covid-19 grade inflation, bristol university have been recklessly expanding the student population for a number of years now. the accommodation crisis is nothing novel to this academic year either, with students being housed in newport a few years ago. this has since been rectified, but is still ridiculous, considering how the university have maintained plans to expand, reaching 30,000 students by 2024.

lack of accommodation *spaces* isn’t the only housing issue either. not by any means. in my first week or so here, i met someone on my course who had her freshers in a hotel, as the accommodation hadn’t been *built* yet. i’m not entirely sure when she moved in (and i’m assuming she has now), but even one day in a hotel is too long.

even if you manage to get an accommodation place, things don’t improve much. what we’re paying is ridiculously expensive, and what we get is substandard. so much to the point that one of my friends is sleeping in my flatmate’s room, because of a mould and damp problem. (they have now been given access to the spare room in our flat, but that too has mould. last night i found mould on my toilet roll.) the maintenance here is near nonexistent, with online reports (our only point of contact) going ignored for (up to) weeks.

accommodation issues don’t disappear after first year either. we’ve been house-hunting for second year recently, and house prices are ridiculous. [epigram](https://epigram.org.uk/2020/03/05/are-students-to-blame-for-bristols-housing-crisis/) reports that house prices have risen by 56.6% in the past decade (over twice the national average). this is in part due to the university’s continual expansion, but gentrification also plays a large part in such a sharp rise.

with both my parents being active in educational and political issues (my mother from the angle of a secondary school teacher in a deprived area, my father just from being a passionate socialist) i have always been acutely aware of systemic issues in education. my gcse english speech was on the myth of meritocracy, and i have listened to many dinner table rants on ofsted’s inherent evil. naturally, i have my own angle too, from that of the treatment of trans and disabled students.

upon arriving at bristol, i soon joined the trans network, being active in the discord from day one. i was soon told to ignore the pleas of ‘resilife’ to join the student health service (shs). bristol university as an institution paint themselves as a pro-queer space, and whilst in some regards this reigns true (such as the ability to apply for lgbt-specific first-year accommodation), the shs has [failed its trans students.](https://epigram.org.uk/2019/05/16/student-health-service-initially-refused-hormone-prescription-to-transgender-student/) university policy specifically directs against the prescribing of hormones, despite an ‘empathetic’ acknowledgement of the torturous waiting list for nhs gics. the concept of ‘bridging’ hormones is perfectly within nhs guidance, and should be offered to students from a university so ‘proud’ of its queer population. further, i have heard multiple stories from trans students who have been refused blood tests (this is especially dangerous for those who are diy-ing hormones) and a refusal from the shs gps to work with a ‘shared care’ model, particularly in the instance of gendergp.

with these issues, i must stress that such transphobia in gp practices is not exclusive to the university by any means. ease of medical transition for trans brits is, much like the rest of nhs access, a postcode lottery. bristol is fortunate enough to house (at least) two practices that trans students have had good experiences with (montpelier &amp; whiteladies). other students in other universities may not be so lucky, and students here may not be in the catchment area for either.

treatment of disabled students is another pressing issue, however i wish to save this for its own unique post, regarding the wider culture of disability in academia.

all this reminds me of how, under capitalism, no system is perfect, or even *acceptable*. i *want* to go into academia. university life is what i enjoy, and academic studies is what i want to pursue as a career. i gave up on following a more computer-focused career due to the culture, but academia has its own unique, toxic culture too. it’s unavoidable.

