# on stickers, dinosaurs, & vinyls
###### 2-12-21

* * *
through my life, i have amassed countless collections, to varying degrees of severity. i don’t really have a *point* to make with this, i just want to talk about the things i’ve collected, in reverse-chronological order. 

my current collections consist of: badges, vinyls, & doc martens

__doc martens__

i got my first pair of doc martens when i was fourteen. i still have them, they’re by far my comfiest pair. they’re plain black boots, but recently i got purple laces for them, because *gay rights*. i have many other pairs, however. i have a black pair of normal shoes, that i wore for school, they’re probably my least favourite, mostly because the laces are weird, and they don’t have the iconic yellow stitching.  i have two other pairs of shoes, a pair of black mary janes, that are currently broken, and an ox-blood red pair i managed to get off depop for ~£40. 

i have more boots, obviously. i have two more pairs of normal boots, and two pairs of platformed boots. for the normal ones, i have a cherry-red pair, with black and yellow striped laces. they’re not very broken in, and i definitely need to start wearing them more. the other pair are white, & patent, with black laces. i got them secondhand, off depop again, and they have a lot of scuffs & black markings, which i’m debating whether to keep to make them look purposefully old, or revamp & clear up.

for platforms, i have a black patent pair, that i wear with rainbow laces, because the oily look gives that cool rainbow effect. when i first got them, they absolutely destroyed my feet, but they’re a lot more comfortable, after wearing to school for a few weeks. the final pair are the same cherry-red as before, but with thinner, fully black laces. 

i can’t really explain why i like docs so much, aside from them just looking cool. they’re an expensive collection, so easily the smallest in terms of raw number, but definitely the most utilised. aside from my slip-on shoes, i exclusively wear doc martens. they’re just really fucking good!

__vinyls__

i got my first record player in 2014, for my twelfth birthday. my parents, before splitting up, had a huge vinyl collection they kept in the cellar, and my goal was to recreate such a collection. i started with gerard way’s *hesitant aliens*. i now have three cases worth of vinyl, varying from £1 singles i got from roughtrade to £100+ limited edition gorillaz releases. i still need to get a better record player, though. the speakers are poor quality, and the overall aesthetic is meh. 

before moving to bristol, i got most of my vinyl from the record shop in birmingham’s oasis. i highly recommend going there, not just for good prices & a great range of genre, but for the experience of walking through the labyrinth of the oasis itself. that place has been home to all of my adolescent phases, where i got that first record, and where i bought a pair of skeleton fingerless gloves, to mimic frank iero. it’s such a big part of who i am, and one of the things i miss most about birmingham. brummies, buy all your vinyl from there, don’t ever bother with the bullring hmv. 

unlike many collections, i know my vinyl will be a permanent part of me. even if i don’t like a specific album anymore, such as melanie martinez’s *crybaby*, i will still always adore vinyl itself, for its own sake.

__badges__

my badge collection is the perfect segue into exploring me at a younger age, as i have always had this collection, although it has changed significantly as i’ve gotten older. i’ve become less obsessive with collecting badges, but i still love a cute, intricate enamel, and queer vintage badges! i need to re-buy my he/him pronoun badge, which i lost late september. 

right now, i have all my badges on a singular black pennant, but when i was younger i had a *lot* more. i did a big purge a while back, throwing away a lot of ‘babyish’ badges, and ones that i know i would never wear. i do regret throwing them away, it would’ve been nice to keep some for sentimentality, but i’m trying not to hoard things as much as i used to. 

i like wearing badges. they’re both very subtle, and very bold. i used to wear them on my blazer at school, including my ‘kick out the tories’ one of course! when i was younger, i had this denim jacket, that i completely *covered* in badges. there was no theme to them, but many were in some way music related. i only have one memory of wearing the jacket, when i went to liverpool to go to the beatles museum. 

__stickers__

i don’t have many stickers now, and all the ones i own are on my macbook. however, as a young child, i was **obsessed** with sticker collecting, whether through a formalised route such as the fifa world cup sticker collections, or buying any random pack i could get my hands on. the day i discovered redbubble stickers was one of the best days of my life.

in one of my old rooms, i had a cupboard with two fairly tall, white doors. i *completely* covered the inside in stickers. there was no theme, no organisation. the stickers didn’t even have to be something i liked, i remember one time my mother gave me a pack of teacher stickers (the ones with motivational apples and other ‘well done!’ remarks on). there were a couple hundred, and i used them all. i ended up buying some similar stickers (in the thousands) off amazon. i’d often go into poundland, and buy random sticker packs, including weird emoji, marine life, & assorted hearts. 

i don’t really have an explanation for this. it’s not like the stickers had to link to another interest i had, they simply just had to be *stickers*. 

__little toys i had tons of__


i know nothing about cars. i do not wish to know things about cars. i also had a lot of toy cars when i was younger. they were just fun to line up (very autistic of me, i know) and organise based on colour, or size. my dad collects ‘toy’ cars too, more specifically volkswagen vans however, and has a huge (and valuable) collection. 

i also had **lots** of toy animals & dinosaurs. again, in true autistic fashion, a lot of my time with them was spent organising & lining them up. i created families for them, based on similar traits (e.g. all the frogs i had were one huge family under the rule of the matriarchal stress-toy frog). those without a collective were put into found families, led by the blue t-rex i had. i still have her somewhere. 

until i sold them very recently, i also had a large collection of go-gos. they were treated almost identically to the animals, being categorised meticulously. after organising (roughly equal) categories, the go-gos would face off in a series of contests, such as who could stay standing the longest whilst i throw things their way, or who could land the furthest away when thrown themselves. there was a group of (limited edition?) gold go-gos that were the designated ‘baddies’, being elitist and over-confident toward the secondhand gogos whose paint had partially come off. 

* * *
this is in no way an exhaustive list of all my collections, in particular it misses out such hyperfixations as paper aeroplanes that never manifested as a *true* collection. i’m not as active in collecting things as i used to be, largely because what i collect is just so much more expensive now. however, i can feel a new interest sneaking in, for my birthday three friends bought me three new sets of dice, quadrupling my overall total. i definitely want more. uh oh. my bank account isn’t going to enjoy this. 

