# on drag, poetry, & candles
###### 20-11-21
* * * 

i’m writing this toward the end of trans day of remembrance (tdor). this past week has been the perfect week for discussing queer community. on wednesday, i went to a drag themed pub quiz, and today of course, i attended the tdor vigil at the royal fort gardens. both two utterly different events, yet both the epitome of queer solidarity & community. 

i went to the pub quiz still riding the high from the previous weekend’s events. i had gone to a trans meetup ran by [not a phase](https://notaphase.org) in the early evening, hosted at the [watershed](https://www.watershed.co.uk). i walked there shaky, on the verge of an anxiety attack. this had only been the second trans-specific event i had been to (the first being the trans mingle during freshers), and meeting new people, trans or not, is a daunting experience regardless. despite spending a lot of the precious time silently listening to others, i enjoyed sitting in a trans-only space, holding the silent knowledge of a shared, yet completely diverse experience. it reminded me of how no two of us are the same, and yet, the sense of community between us all is so mutually strong. shon faye was there too, making me internally freak out for a while, as i’d been waiting for her [book](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Transgender-Issue-Argument-Justice/dp/B092RC5WM4/ref=sr_1_1?keywords=shon+faye&qid=1637541842&sr=8-1) to come out, and i have a small postcard about it on my wall. 

the meetup put us on the guestlist for [sink the pink’s](https://sinkthepink.com) night at [motion](https://motion-bristol.com), featuring the legendary amanda lepore. i’d never heard of sink the pink before, but after that saturday, i immediately became obsessed. ginny lemon, probably my favourite drag artist, was there too, along with jodie harsh, and many, many other queer acts that i fell in love with. i have a marmite-like relationship with clubbing. bad nights have been some of the worst nights of my entire life, and vice versa. being a queer event, much like the trans meetup, i felt that same intangible sense of mutual understanding, alleviating all pre-club anxiety i had developed.

the pub quiz was not your average pub quiz. of course it wasn’t. in between rounds of queer-related questions, the first, ‘easy’ round being dedicated to drag race, we were treated to a variety of drag acts, ranging from lipsyncing, to spoken word, to satirical sketches. the penultimate round of the quiz was a series of balls, one of which being a challenge to drag-up a potato. the top three teams would honour our queer ancestry in an infamous reading challenge. myself and my friend [drew](https://drewb729.github.io) did well on the trivia, better than i had ever expected to do, but lost points due to neither of us being in drag nor being the rowdiest group (the other two ball categories). that intangible sense returned, being accompanied by a near-deafening sense of pride. having taken over the student union’s balloon bar, we were loud and unavoidable, and had made the night so inherently queer that our visibility was at the max.

the vigil however, was inevitably a complete contrast. after making our way up st michael’s hill in the dark, my friends & i located the gardens, soon finding everyone else who attended. we were given tea lights to hold, whilst a couple committee members read out the list of those who had died throughout the year. 

as a trans person, and as a person active in the trans community, i am all too aware of the statistics surrounding our oppression. hearing numbers on our deaths is something my ears have now grown accustomed to. this was new, and harrowing. the list of names felt almost indefinite. i truly did not quantify how many *individual lives* 375 was, until hearing their names. three hundred and seventy five lives. three hundred and seventy five stories, each with their own unique experiences, each with people who love them, and people who don’t. three hundred and seventy five *innocent people* whose stories have been left unjustly unfinished. fuck.

standing around in a rough circle in complete darkness (with the exception of the candles) in an otherwise empty public garden thoroughly diverges from the inescapable visibility of the pub quiz. i could barely see the trans flags on the grass from the lack of light, being an apt metaphor for our lack of visibility in a cisnormative society. after holding the tea light for so long, i accidentally spilled some wax on my palm, solidifying immediately in the cold autumn night. the sting of the wax served, in that moment, as a reminder of the curse of visibility without protection. the flicker of the candlelight providing the only visuals for the night, yet that same wax stung my defenseless hand, making me wish i had worn gloves. 

poetry formed a significant aspect of both nights. at the vigil, i was introduced to chrysanthemum tran’s poetry for the first time, with [*maybe all transgender people are really vampires*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uLaJlBoW5ng). however, i want to focus more on the second poem of that night, which was read at the pub quiz also. self-proclaimed ‘pretentious eccentric’ [blondie glyn](https://instagram.com/coco_cha_fuckyou_no5) delighted the quiz audience with her erratic, yet enticing and enchanting poetry, one of which featured in part an acrostic of ‘trans’ itself, the ‘a’ characteristically being adhd. their poetry is of the exact style i connect with instantly, being so beautifully written, but blunt, and often crude at the same time. poetry is most successful when portraying a distinctive voice, which i think is why queer topics often work so well in poetic form. all aspects of queer life are deeply personal, but these same aspects carry across relational themes. i have no doubt that my queer experience will be vastly different to blondie’s. despite this, i immediately resonated with the opening of the poem that featured both nights:

> I am big  
> As in there is nothing to hide behind  
> As in I have to sign post people around my body

experiencing the same poem, read by the same person, couldn’t’ve felt more different. the vigil reading felt hauntological, forcing me to recall the quiz night, running over my fresh memories of an effortlessly enjoyable evening, whilst i stood next to a memorial of those who had no more evenings to enjoy. the different contexts enabled me to grasp a more intimate sense of the poetry, reminding me of those who were too big for society to handle. 

being queer, and especially trans, is a paradoxical feeling. our sense of community, and identity, is so full of pride, and so full of mourning. i have a photo of lou sullivan on my wall, a transgender man who died from aids, but also a transgender man who was a pioneer in changing perception of transmasculine individuals, particularly in context of our sexuality. my transgender identity has blessed me with an amazing community, but has cursed me with the pain of trauma from others. it has blessed me with a wealth of experience, but cursed me with an exhausting need to be brave in something as ‘simple’ as my own existence. i am relentlessly strong in my bravery, and yet my bravery wears me down with every move i make in this world. 

* * *
blondie’s full poem:

> I am big  
> As in there is nothing to hide behind  
> As in I have to sign post people around my body  
> I am round as in I can’t stay on top of anything  
> I heart bend and mind break  
> I am bullshit ballooning and gender wake and breath take  
> I block out the sun and become illegible  
> I am strong as in I am ugly  
> As in double takes and fake mistakes  
> I am solid and soiled and stared at and sad  
>  
> I am small  
> As in I have never seen the sun  
> As in writing love letters to what I want to become  
> “Dear me,  
> I am summer time immaculate  
> I am sunshine in a dress  
> Hold me like a flower  
> Like shingle, like sand  
> Barely solid  
> Soft, rare and very beautiful  
> Move me too quick and you can never have me back”  
> I am empty as in when I’m wanking I think about the sky  
> As in  
> When I’m upset I think about something I have never seen  
>  
> I am sad  
> As in I have never seen the sun  
> But I am happy  
> As in I have nothing to hide behind


