<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/strict.dtd">
<html>
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css">
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer">
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="2022.6">
  <style type="text/css">
    p.p1 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; font: 12.0px Helvetica}
    p.p2 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; font: 12.0px Helvetica; min-height: 14.0px}
  </style>
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"># on my first university essay, mental health, &amp; failing</p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">* * *</p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">i just finished my first undergrad [essay](). i haven’t handed it in yet, i won’t until tomorrow morning. i’m experienced in essays, and i do genuinely enjoy writing them (or else why would i have this website?), but that was the most challenging academic thing i’ve done before.</p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">i can’t truthfully say it was the *hardest*. that award goes to polar co-ordinates and vectors. i’ve known the philosophy regarding my essay for a while now, having read about it in early secondary school, and getting a brief introduction in year 13. by challenging, i mean something that attacked not my intellect, but everything else within my mind. my organisation, my focus, my perseverance, my motivation. all those ‘less’ intellectual attributes.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">before university, an ‘essay’ to me was essentially a timed brain-dump. a structured dump nonetheless, but still a dump. rs essays have a very particular structure to them, and very specific ways of phrasing questions, alongside a limited specification, in essence telling me what to write, and how to write it.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">all the information i got about this essay was “2000 word essay on one of the questions at the end of this document”. there were over 20 questions, with varying degrees of specificity, ranging from a fairly closed ‘can the meditator ever escape the cartesian circle’ to the infinitely open ‘do we know that the sun will rise tomorrow’. being autistic, vague instructions confuse me to a *great* extent. i overthink what they want me to do, as not enough was explicitly mentioned, and i am rattled with a constant questioning over whether my interpretation is even correct. safe to say, i chose a fairly closed question, though it did allow me to cover multiple theories, rather than just sticking to one concept. this enabled me to explore areas of my own interest (such as queer philosophy) whilst not going on a completely unrelated tangent.</p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">my mental health more generally has also been greatly affected. i take a lot of pride in my academic work, and hold myself to impossibly high standards, something i discussed with my therapist yesterday. academia has always been the primary focus in my life, whether it was in order to pass my 11+, or to get my gcses, or in doing my a levels. it was also something i was objectively, and consistently good at (despite what my subjective mind tells me). i hadn’t failed academically in a way that materially mattered until i received my oxford rejection, and getting that crushed me at the time. i applied for mathematics and philosophy, at christchurch college. i had to take the infamous mat, which i knew on the day i had failed in.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">retrospectively, i am very happy i got rejected. there’s still a scar there, but bristol is amazing, and i *needed* an academic failure at least once before university.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">i had a really bad day yesterday, mentally. i forgot to take my meds, resulting in a dissociative episode in the evening, and a general feeling of shittiness throughout the day. after the episode, i hid under my covers for a while, with my weighted blanket, crying. the first area my brain attacked myself over was my essay. my brain told me over, and over, that my essay was complete bullshit, that i should restart, drink a shit ton of coffee and redbull, and rewrite it in one last-minute sitting. i managed to resist this, but i know the shitty little voice will always be there, for every essay i write, waiting to strike at my weakest moments.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
<p class="p1">i know i have a lot more reflection to do, particularly about how i organised my time, and conducted my research. those areas i definitely need to focus on improving. i know that a lot will just come from experience. i’m not going to be perfect at an essay when it’s my first one i’ve ever written for university. i’m not even going to be perfect when it’s my hundredth. that is okay.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p2"><br></p>
</body>
</html>
