{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24320\viewh15540\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # on stimming, bass guitars, & perseverance\
###### 7-11-21\
* * *\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl404\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 i got my first bass when i was fourteen, after getting a spurt of inspiration from watching a ton of fall out boy & my chemical romance videos. i still have that bass, it\'92s the only one i have (i\'92m trying to get my parents to get me a sexy fender one for my birthday & christmas, but it\'92s looking unlikely) but i\'92ve since upgraded my amp from the teeny-tiny practice one i started with.\'a0
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \uc0\u8232 i had lessons for around a year, from my dad\'92s friend\'92s son, just before he went to uni. it was fun, and he also helped me a little with piano (although i\'92ve entirely given up on it now).\'a0 i didn\'92t get very far though, and gave up on playing after the lessons fell through. i (partially) put this down to exams, but i was definitely lacking motivation, and struggled to break through the initial barrier of starting a new skill.
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \uc0\u8232 i am notoriously bad at approaching *new* things. even moreso when it doesn\'92t naturally come to me. the most notable example is art, or rather, drawing. i am not a dextrous person by any means, and i often feel like my hands do not work how they should. i am, simply put, *bad* at finicky hand movements. this translated a lot into my many attempts to draw, and my external output had no hope of ever catching up with my internal vision. my mother, on the other hand, is a fantastic artist. i remember a pencil drawing she did of two elephants, that was so beautifully detailed, and so hyper-realistic. i had little hope of getting to this level, especially when i had little perseverance.
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl404\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 over the summer, i got bored, and picked up my bass. for the first time in four years. i had never fallen out of love with the bass, despite never playing. basslines are incredibly stimmy to me. the equaliser on spotify is a godsend, and i have the bass boosted so much that often, you can barely make out the lyrics. when i bought a new headset (the [kraken kittys.](https://www.razer.com/gaming-headsets/razer-kraken-kitty/RZ04-02980100-R3M1) i have no shame), i messed around for ages with its equaliser, creating an amazing bass boosted listening of cocteau twins\'92 (best) album, [*treasure*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gF8fnsyjCoI&list=PLa3HlKFsnLvaaC7mwuInJZfRVcbvg2bXv). focusing on the bass was an ethereal, dissociative experience. i love it.\'a0\uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 i started with a mitski song, [*nobody*.](https://youtu.be/qooWnw5rEcI) this was maybe out of my skillset, considering how poor my form was, but i didn\'92t care, at least on the day. i just wanted to listen to the sound i was making. in retrospect, the sound i was making was *awful*, but i soon watched a few videos on proper form, and made noticeable improvement quite quickly.\uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 i practice daily now. i\'92m motivated mostly through stimming. i\'92d love to get to a level where i can jam with others, and be in a band, but i\'92m content with where i\'92m at right now. being able to play a solid bassline, along with songs i love, is really therapeutic. some songs that i\'92m particularly confident with, i zone out whilst playing, and hone in on the lyrics as i listen. a lot of my recent sparks of inspiration have come from midway through a song, particularly mitski\'92s [*francis forever*.](https://youtu.be/L05DH-MvPeA) the inspiration to make this site came from when i was playing through [*washing machine heart.*](https://youtu.be/3vjkh-acmTE) i don\'92t know how long i\'92ll keep up this daily practice, and i don\'92t mind, which is new for me.\uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 i struggle with committing to projects a lot. my room is a museum of half-finished projects, barely read books, and old hyperfixations. it\'92s a paradoxical situation too, as i never want to invest money, or time, into a new project idea, as i know it\'92ll be thrown away once i stop hyperfixating, but the hyperfixation is so powerful that i can\'92t help *but* invest everything into it. i now mostly rely on the assumption that someday in the future, i\'92ll pick it back up, whether it\'92s a week or a year away. for a long time, and still to this day at points, this way my brain operated caused deep insecurity & self-hatred. i so badly wanted to just *finish* a single project. for once. as with almost everything else about myself, i\'92m learning to accept it, knowing that no matter how hard i try, i can\'92t change how my brain works, i can just work with it instead.\'a0\uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 who knows, maybe in a year i\'92ll pick up the clarinet again!
\f2\fs24 \
}